InstructionsInstructionsInstructionsInstructionsInstructionsInstructions

			Zeno Source Distribution
			========================

Here's a BRIEF outline of how to install Zeno on a Mac (OS 10.6 or
higher).  With trivial modifications, Zeno can also be installed under
Linux or Unix; see the notes at the end for details.

This process could be streamlined, and I would appreciate any
suggestions on ways to simplify the installation procedure.  However,
this works...


1.  The Gnu C Compiler (gcc) is recommended when installing and using
Zeno.  If you've not already done so, install gcc from the OS X Install
disk, or download it from www.gnu.org/software/gcc or a mirror site.


2.  Zeno now uses the Gnu Scientific Library (gsl), which is freely
available from www.gnu.org/software/gsl/ .  You will need to install GSL
before proceeding.  If you need to install it in a non-standard
location, see note d) below.


3.  Select a directory in which to install Zeno.  For simplicity, I'll
assume in the following that you are using your home directory, and
abbreviate it as "~".  In this directory, extract the Zeno archive:

	tar -xvf zeno.VER.tar.gz

where VER is the version of the archive.  This will place the entire
distribution tree in directory "~/zeno".


4.  If an update is available on the web site, extract it in the same
directory as the zeno archive:

	tar -xvf zeno.VER1.tar.gz

where VER1 is the version of the update.  This will replace updated
files with newer versions.


5.  Assuming you're using bash (the GNU Bourne-Again SHell), edit
"~/.bash_profile" and insert the following lines:

	export ZENOPATH="/Users/<yourname>/zeno"
	export ZCC="gcc"
	export ZCCFLAGS="-std=gnu99 -DMACOSX -I$ZENOPATH/inc"
	export ZLDFLAGS="-L$ZENOPATH/lib"
	export ZENO_SAFE_SELECT="true"
	export ZENO_MSG_OPTION="all"

Here, "<yourname>" is your user name; this assumes (as per step #2) that
you decided to install zeno under your home directory.  If you installed
it elsewhere, modify ZENOPATH accordingly.  You will probably also want
to add $ZENOPATH/bin to your search PATH.  Once you've made these
changes, start a new window or execute "source ~/.bash_profile" so they
will be in effect for the next step.

The variables "ZENO_SAFE_SELECT" and "ZENO_MSG_OPTION" influence the
behavior of Zeno software.  Undefining "ZENO_SAFE_SELECT" makes access
to particle data slightly faster, but sacrifices detection of references
to undefined data fields.  Setting "ZENO_MSG_OPTION" to "warn" limits
informational messages to urgent warnings, while setting it to "none"
suppresses even these.  Other environment flags you can set include
"ZENO_PHSTR_DEBUG", which produces debug messages from the phatstruct
package (set "ZENO_MSG_OPTION" to "all" to see them).


6.  Finally, change to "~/zeno" and build the system:

	make -f Zeno install_all >& zenomake.log

This takes about 28 seconds on a 2.4 GHz iMac; your mileage may vary.
Currently, the last line in zenomake.log shows several versions of
sphcode being moved to the zeno bin directory; if the build got that far
then chances are everything is OK!

If you examine zenomake.log, you may find warnings about comparisons
or casts between pointers and integers, etc.  None of these appear to
indicate serious problems.  Eventually I hope to fix them.


If you have problems or questions, email me at the address below.

Joshua Barnes <barnes@ifa.hawaii.edu>

						7 June 2015
						Kyoto, Japan

________________________________________________________________________

Building Zeno on LINUX or SunOS


a) You will need to insure that OpenGL and GLUT (or their equivalents)
are installed and that the necessary include and library files can be
found when required.  If this is not possible, you can edit
~/zeno/src/nbody/graphics/Makefile and just remove snapview from
BINFILES.  The snapview program will not be compiled, but other
programs will still be available.


b) In Step 5, /Users/<yourname> should be replaced by by the path of
your home directory, or whatever directory you are installing Zeno in.


c) In Step 5, instead of specifying -DMACOSX, use -DLINUX or -DSUN to
indicate the type of your operating system.


d) If you install gsl in a non-standard location, you need to tell the
compiler and loader where to look by modifying ZCCFLAGS and ZLDFLAGS.  For
example, if you install gsl in $ZENOPATH/gsl, use

	export ZCCFLAGS="-DMACOSX -I$ZENOPATH/inc -I$ZENOPATH/gsl/include"
	export ZLDFLAGS="-L$ZENOPATH/lib -L$ZENOPATH/gsl/lib"

to indicate where the gsl include files and libraries can be found.


e) If attempts to execute Zeno programs produce error messages which
mention libgsl.so and claim there is "No such file or directory", then
you need to set the LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable to include the
directory with the gsl libraries.  If gsl is installed in the default
location, use

	export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/usr/local/lib"

while if, as in the example above, gsl is in #ZENOPATH/gsl, use

	export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$ZENOPATH/gsl/lib"


InstructionsInstructionsInstructionsInstructionsInstructionsInstructions
